aggregate support for dbt-snowflake and dbt-bigquery (#8181)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/type.md

title: type
sidebar_label: "type"
id: type
description: "The type config specifies the type of user-defined function you're creating."
---
<VersionCallout version="1.11" /> 

<File name='functions/<filename>.yml'>

```yml
functions:
  - name: function_name
    config:

>       type: scalar | aggregate | table  # scalar & aggregate partially supported, table not supported

Reviewer: I don't think we should include `table` here if it's not supported and since the note below states we're "considering" it and it's not officially coming soon

>       type: scalar | aggregate | table  # scalar & aggregate partially supported, table not supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      type: scalar | aggregate 
```

```

</File>

> In the future, we're considering adding support for `table` type. Refer to [this issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/11917) to track the progress and provide any feedback.

Reviewer 2: I think this covers future plans to add `table` - let's remove other mentions of it in the docs!

## Definition

The `type` config specifies the type of user-defined function (UDF) you're creating. This config is optional and defaults to `scalar` if not specified.

## Supported function types

The following function types are supported:
<!-- no toc -->
- [scalar (default)](#scalar-default)
- [aggregate](#aggregate)

Support for `type` differs based on the warehouse and language (SQL or Python) you're using:

> | Adapter	| scalar SQL	| scalar Python	| aggregate SQL	| aggregate Python | table SQL | table Python |

Reviewer: As above, I'd leave table out entirely to prevent any confusion

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dbt-bigquery	| ✅	| ✅	| ✅	| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| dbt-snowflake	| ✅	| ✅	| ❌	| ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| dbt-databricks	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| dbt-postgres	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

> | dbt-redshift	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Adapter	| scalar SQL	| scalar Python	| aggregate SQL	| aggregate Python |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dbt-bigquery	| ✅	| ✅	| ✅	| ❌ |
| dbt-snowflake	| ✅	| ✅	| ❌	| ✅ |
| dbt-databricks	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ |
| dbt-postgres	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ |
| dbt-redshift	| ✅	| ❌	| ❌	| ❌ |
```

functions:
  - name: <function name>
    config:

>       type: scalar | aggregate | table  # scalar & aggregate partially supported, table coming soon

Reviewer 2: @QMalcolm do we want to commit to "table coming soon" or just leave it at scalar and aggregate for now since that's what we're expecting for the 1.11 release?

Reviewer 3: I'd leave it as scalar + aggregate for now. Unless we have a concrete plan on how fast we want to follow with table functions

### aggregate

> Aggregate functions operate on multiple rows and return a single value &mdash; for example, summing values or calculating an average across a group. These functions are used in `GROUP BY` operations.

Reviewer: Suggest active voice
```suggestion
Aggregate functions operate on multiple rows and return a single value &mdash; for example, they sum values or calculate an average for a group. Queries use these functions in `GROUP BY` operations.
```

Author: thanks @matthewshaver ! the [ style guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#active-voice) allows passive voice when the system is the actor, but i can change this to active for clarity and no harm. i'm updating this from 'you' to 'queries' since this describes how the system applies aggregate functions in group by operations, not a user action.

also removed a quote at the end since it seems like it was put there erroneously

> Aggregate functions are supported only for:

Reviewer: See the next comment
```suggestion
Aggregate functions are currently supported only for:
```

- Python functions on Snowflake
- SQL functions on BigQuery

> More warehouse and language support is planned for a future release.

Reviewer: Based on feedback from the field, I believe we should avoid ambiguous future release language
```suggestion
```
